thank you you know intimidating it is
when you got a standing ovation before
you speak it is well I can only
disappoint you now is it sad I know that
was for Sue I do I appreciate that
anyway it first of all Jonathan thank
you for introducing me and thank you the
Nixon Library for this beautiful this
beautiful place where I last spoke for
the 25th anniversary Roast of me were
any of you there perchance it was a you
if you were you laughter yourself silly
at my expense I might add
tonight will be a little more serious
but it was a great night and I love
coming back here thank you for having me
so let me get there right down to to the
subject let me tell you of course many
of you know me and and I mean that
sincerely and I don't mean listen to me
I mean know me I am exactly what you
hear on the radio you can ask the people
who work with me so I say if you listen
you know me and the reason for that is
that I always believed that openness
even when it's difficult is the best way
to communicate people then really do
believe in what you say and you have
every right to I may well be wrong and I
have been but you know that I want to
earn your respect through my credibility
so that's a little summation of of what
I what I try to be on the under on the
air and for that matter off the air so
let me tell you something about me that
really animated the writing of this book
which was the most difficult
intellectual task I ever engaged in the
most difficult task period was raising
teenagers
so we put that on its own category of
difficulty and returned to other
difficult things but beyond that this
this was the the most difficult thing I
ever did there were there were times
during the writing when I said I think I
I bit off more than I can chew is that
the way the motto goes I always get
these things wrong I have a monkey in
this race I get all these things wrong
but that was right bit off more than I
could chew okay I was afraid of that I
really was because you know I kept
thinking why don't I just write
something on American values or why
didn't I just write something on the
left or just one thing on Islamist
values instead I wrote three books and
they're in love by the way so for those
of you Believe It Or about I was gonna
say for those of you who say well the
dentists don't you say books should be
200 pages or less so let me tell you
it's it's unbelievable what I get and
anyone in public life it's it's not
unique to me we get attacked for
anything and and it's one thing for
somebody to write me an email dear
Dennis you say books should be 200 pages
or less yet we know this is 435 what
gives all right that would be a
perfectly legit instead in caps and you
know whenever an email comes in caps it
isn't I love you okay it's just think
it's a given it's it's a it's a non
audible way of yelling at you and the in
in giant letters it goes hypocrite by
God if that's the worst this person who
clearly dislikes me can can accuse me of
that I'm a hypocrite for writing a
longer book than my ideal number I'm in
good shape but that but that's what I
got so let me explain why it is as long
as it is it's three books
it really is it's one is on American
values but if I didn't write the other
to see the challenge to American values
is Lomb ism which is which I define as
the desire to spread Sharia law and
Sharia based society Sharia is Islamic
law it is not does not mean religious
Muslim does not mean secular Muslim does
not mean Muslim means the Muslim who
wishes to promulgate a Sharia basis ayat
II and that is a very real danger to
Muslims as well as to non-muslims what's
happening to Christians in Muslim
countries today and the and the world's
media essentially ignoring it is is a
travesty and by the way I have in my my
chapter on the left and the way in which
the media deliver news a very
interesting series of and all footnoted
stories and I give one example and that
happens all the time and once you see
the pattern it's eerie it's eerie you
learn what is happening Christians are
being killed in Nigeria for example as
you and I speak it is almost a weekly
occurrence that Chris a church is burned
Christians are beaten etc by Muslims in
Nigeria it's a country that's 50/50
Christian and Muslim do you know how it
is always reported in from Reuters
to the BBC to the New York Times it's
reported as inter-religious violence but
it isn't inter-religious violence that's
like saying that when the Nazis killed
the Jews it was inter racial violence no
it was Nazi persecution of Jews this
is Muslim persecution of Christians but
you don't get it that way you don't
that's not the headline and I show you
the headlines in the book so it's not
Islamism which constitutes in the West
the challenge to American values
it's leftism and and I called it leftism
because it's a religious conviction a
series of convictions that people have
and one when you understand it and it's
hard to unravel it it's very easy to
explain where Islam stands on this where
Christianity stands Judaism stands where
American values are was very hard to
because there's no book if you look for
a book on Christianity confinement this
is what Christians stand for right Chris
what Christianity believes what Judaism
believes is what Islam believes what if
you wanted this is what leftism believed
what would you do
you wouldn't get Karl Marx's dust copy
tell first of all you'd fall asleep and
you would never know by the end what
happened because it's it's it's
unreadable and so what would you read
and I realized they're weirdly was no a
statement of this is what I believes I
think my book presents in that sense
there are great books on the Left don't
get me wrong
thank God there were great books but
none that really say this is what they
believe this is why they believe it and
this is why it succeeds which is what I
have i describe leftism and what he
realizes it's an alternate view of the
world it is and you know from my radio
show I do not I do not say do not think
do not argue that people have bad
motives who have different views than I
I'm very adamant about that and the
reason by the way you have no idea how
liberating that is the only reason that
I have been able to write this book was
because my first years of radio I
realized I have to assume that those I
differ with
mean well you have no idea the reason
it's liberating is it made me made me
fight their ideas intellectually rather
than ad hominem see if the if though if
everybody you differ with is an idiot is
selfish as despicable as mean-spirited
as greevey then why debate there's no
debate Europe you're a jackass forgive
me and that ends the issue right by the
way that is what they believe of us
that's why we win the debates we always
win the debates well I have had some of
the biggest left-wing names in in the
world on my radio show like Howard Zinn
before he died I had a mom I just want
to say cuz you you might think I conduct
a seance every so often on the show and
I don't but I had Howard Zinn Howard
Zinn is the author of popular history of
the United States it is the single most
widely used history of the United States
and schools unbelievably it's that gives
you an idea how how left-wing the
schools are that they would have Howard
Zinn's but III had him on and it people
were unnerved by what he said why
because I wasn't there to attack him I
was just there to provide clarity this
is what he believes for example he he I
asked them do you believe that the world
would be better if they were no United
States and he essentially said yes had
America never developed man man who was
prospered beyond words in the United
States of America could have that view
it's it's almost mind-boggling but he's
in since a sincere leftist he sincere he
doesn't he didn't wake up in the morning
and think how can I do harm so when we
debate these folks then I get these
letters all Dennis you should have this
and this leftist on you didn't have a
good one on what that's what I always
get all well he wasn't a good
representative I said he's one of the
best it what it doesn't matter we win
because we not all of us some of us have
their habits but most of us deal with
their ideas they only deal with our
character that's why I gave you the
acronym six her
si X hir be sexist and tolerant
xenophobic homophobic Islamophobic
racist and bigoted that's what you if
you're conservative are now why would
you debate somebody who was who is
sexist intolerant xenophobic homophobic
Islamophobic racist and bigoted why
would you do that right
it's like debating a Ku Klux Klansmen
you don't debate them you shoot them
right what are you a debate yes well I
think blacks should be should be lynched
no I don't think that blacks should be
let it's not a debatable issue you just
want to kill these people
but that's how they feel about us we're
not that we're not worthy of debate were
all these bad things
not to mention greedy but I couldn't
have six Herberger so I didn't put it in
you know I would or six curb Oh
the greedy part I love the greedy part
it's just an amazing thing like greed we
they want to abolish greed it's a you
it's that's another part of the left
that see utopian expectation like what
does greed mean greed is obviously a
pejorative right but the desire for
profit we have up at Prager University
calm a video Walter Williams and one of
the great economists has a as five
minutes all our courses are five minutes
on profit and it just it shakes you up
to watch this what would we have were it
not for profit what would there be would
this chandelier be in this room with
this floor be in this room with this
building have been built with the
clothing you're wearing be available to
you with the shoes you are wearing with
the car you came on all of it is thanks
to prophet boy did I learn this well in
the Soviet Union I which I visited a
number of occasions because I said that
was my field of study and I studied
Russian I learned after my third visit
to a restaurant to bring a very long
book because by the time I would be
served by a waiter I got through
part of a book they didn't they would
gather at the other corner of the room
and talk to each other you were ignored
why didn't they serve because no matter
what they did they got the same salary
see there were there was no profit in
excellence so why be excellent you're
excellent because there's reward you do
you don't do certain things because
there's punishment that is the way we're
made there's nothing shameful in that
when I hear a college kid
believe me I much prefer a college kid
who says you know I would like to make a
good living and support a family then a
kid who said I want to save the world
okay when I was when I was in graduate
school of Columbia I met kids who wanted
to save the world
and they were terrible kids they were
they were awful they treated people
awfully these were this was the crowd
that loved humanity it was humans they
treated terribly but they they were in
love with humanity by the way you know
mine I have the opposite
I love humans and have contempt for
Humanity no I'm very serious is it name
of one of my articles contempt for
Humanity love of humans I love people
anybody who's in my life knows I love
people right I do I do
I'm but I I love the people in the
elevator with me I do but the humanity
the record of humanity is grotesque by
the way for those of you who are
biblically inclined and I am biblically
inclined the I've taught the the Bible
specifically what we Jews call the Torah
the first five books of the Bible for 25
years from the Hebrew and I've taught
this the verse the most famous verse
perhaps in the whole Bible of your
neighbor as yourself right and I I
taught this point why does it say love
your neighbor why doesn't it say love
everyone as yourself and the answer is
it's easy to love everyone it's hard to
love your
neighbor
that's that's a big deal that's why by
the way I one of my next books if not my
next book will be my commentary on those
first five books of the Bible because
those are the insights that can change a
life that very very notion by the way
just for your edification because I know
many of you were religiously inclined
and you're you're fascinated by Coe
Bible oriented people I was taught it
was a great way to learn who's great and
it has stood me well in reading
newspapers it's part of the reason I
read slowly but it also is the reason
that I read very effectively we were
taught in the Jewish schooling that I
went through till the age of eighteen we
were taught that whenever you come
across a verse in the Bible you ask why
does it say this and not this and it has
been fascinating I think I was the first
one to catch the New York Times when it
identified George Zimmerman as a white
Hispanic the first day is that's the
first day that's how they identified him
and I I heard nobody comment on this but
mom trained to say white Hispanic
isn't that a first and sure enough you
can do a search on the New York Times
page and as a subscriber we subscribe to
their stuff they never subscribe to our
stuff right and that interesting right
ask any of your liberal friends if they
get National Review
right or or listen to conservative radio
which they have been brainwashed into
believing is hate radio they never hear
us and they say it's hate radio I was
just on three hours with Hugh Hewitt
now there's a real hater for you I mean
right I mean think about it or me or
Bill Bennett just to take the folks on
our station Bill Bennett is a real hater
well the only thing he hates is yelling
right a thermo soft-spoken radio
talk-show host an American radio history
hi it's morning in America with Bill I
hope you're doing well a day and I am
right the hater a big hater there right
Michael Medved another hater I mean it's
it is so they they don't listen but they
have been told in The New York Times
that it's hate radio and therefore it's
that's the end of the issue so the way
things are presented back to my original
issue the way things are presented in
the media changed people's minds I asked
in a very long chapter why has the left
succeeded and there are many many
reasons then I want to get to the
American part obviously but a big part
of it is when you control the world's
media and I don't need it there's no
conspiracy I never believed in a
conspiracy forgive me I don't believe in
any conspiracies I think Kennedy was
killed by one person
I don't believe extraterrestrials visit
I just don't believe in in any
conspiracy there's not a left-wing
conspiracy it's simply that that is the
dominant ideology of our time as I say
there are three ideologies competing for
humanity Islamism leftism and
Americanism to proselytize we don't and
we're paying the price we're losing our
own country this is not meant I'm not
running for office this is not meant as
a as a as a political line excuse me no
it's literally
we are losing the American value system
the left proselytizers Muslims
proselytize but Americans don't we react
we lose our own children right people
lost their children in college
conservative parents sent their children
to left-wing seminaries cult colleges
and I'm not against sending your kids to
to college
I'm prefer preparing them by the way one
of the best preparation is one year as a
waiter or waitress I'm dead serious just
you know why one dose of reality will
undo four years of the of the fantasy
world that they will have a collar
on the other hand if they go straight
from high school to college it's not
there is a silver lining if they spend
four years inebriated I just want you to
know that I I I always try to find the
silver lining and things if your kid
drinks for four years at college they
may not hear what they're being spoken
to so there's something something to be
said about that by the way I'll never
forget I never you know I I walk along a
sort of cliff when I speak as I you know
I almost I never fall over but I come
close I take risks and here I was at one
of the preeminent pastors of the country
preeminent churches in America in San
Antonio Texas I was I was the honor to
speak to Pastor John Hagee's
congregation and I said this in the
middle of my speech I said maybe it's
good if your kid is he's drunk for four
years of college and I remember this
voice in me thinking will they yank me
off this platform I later learned and I
think I realized then John Hagee laughed
so hard I thought I might kill him that
that was first by was worried about me
then I was worried about him
but it's it's everybody realizes the
truth that there might be to that about
the left-wing seminary I mentioned on
Hugh's show do you know that Woodrow
Wilson and college heads have said that
the purpose of a college education is to
have you challenged on either the
challenge or reject I don't remember I
think challenge your father's values not
it's in other words it's no longer to
teach truth it's no longer to teach what
is beautiful what is true what is right
but to reject your parents values that's
what is taught do you think that there
is a single college mainstream college
in America talk about the latest issue
of today you think there was a single
columns that has had a spokesman come in
to speak for retaining the male-female
definition of marriage I doubt it and
yet they are Bob Barr
bombarded with the only that the only
right thing just as it was wrong to ban
interracial marriage it is wrong to ban
same-sex marriage there's a but and
nobody thinks because no one has brought
in to ask the simple question or give
this simple rejoinder there's no
comparison between race and gender none
there's no difference between a black
human and a white human but there are
enormous differences between a female
human and a male human okay so the
entire analogy is is inappropriate is
invalid there there are men's rooms
there are women's rooms there are men's
stores there are women's stores that's
perfectly fine but it would not be
perfectly fine to have black stores and
white stores we fought against that
correctly because there is no difference
between the black and the white and the
yellow and the red but there is between
male and female and the obliteration of
that difference is a major factor yeah
and why I think it is a danger to
society to redefine marriage not because
I lack compassion for gays which I have
deeply and love for some gays who happen
to be in my own life but that's very
different from redefining marriage the
reason I put leftism
in a book on Americanism is because it's
the greatest challenge to Americanism
very few Americans are gonna become
Islamist but a lot of Americans become
leftist and while I never even even hint
at the thought that if you're on the
Left you therefore by definition don't
love America it's not for me to judge
who loves or doesn't love America but it
is for me to judge whether your values
are American or not you may love America
and hold values that are in contre
distinction to American values is that
makes perfect sense it's very possible
to do that it's done by a good portion
of the of our fellow Americans the
American value system the first thing
you've got to do is you got to explain
it and you probably know what I've
coined that
term American Trinity American Trinity
is located on all your coins why a coin
is on the cover of my book it's located
on every coin Liberty and God We Trust
an e pluribus unum there is no other
Society in the world I checked it the
month I checked the photos of every
society in the world
my eyes were glazing over well let me
check Chad for a moment maybe they do
too and then I'm really screwed but
anyway it turns out it's unique to the
United States and it is an extraordinary
statement it is that's what that's what
encapsulate American values and the left
does not have those three values versus
Liberty they prefer equality I mean and
they are they are at odds with one
another the more equality you push the
less Liberty there will be I mean let's
take the monetary issue let's say I want
all Americans to earn the same amount of
money let's just say that that's pure
equality right well then there's no
Liberty to earn more Derek Jeter earns
as much as I do well I would be great
yeah I'm starting to like that idea but
unfortunately what happens is it's not
that my income gets elevated that both
our ekans go down but it's obvious when
you tell every corporation as they do in
Norway you must have a woman on your
board not a woman half the board must be
women then they then the board the
company doesn't have Liberty it doesn't
have the freedom to choose who it wants
if there's a golf course that wants to
be all-male that's liberty equality is
we force it to have females as well now
by the way there may be very good
arguments for for it to have females
it may be anachronistic to have an
all-male Golf Club that's a separate
issue entirely the question is does it
have the right to look I'll be very
honest with you I've thought about this
a lot and I am very very very sensitive
to to this issue but I will just tell
you I am so and now
bird of Liberty that even if it hurt me
let us say there was a golf club that
said no Jews I would fight for its right
not to have me that I would by the way
you know what Jews did in LA they work
they were there were clubs that didn't
allow Jews Country Club so Jew started
their own country clubs and then the
non-jews joined the Jewish country clubs
that's exactly what happened you know
can't beat them you can't join two can't
join em beat him that was this that's
what you do i mean that's the american
way there now this is stupid ideal of
jews in let everybody in and that's fine
anyway I actually I actually like the
American people and I don't think that a
country club that said no Jews would
prosper today in America okay so I'm not
sure we need laws to force them but if
push came to shove I prefer Liberty
looking in the and just to give one more
example on this very on this very matter
in in Europe you are not allowed to deny
the Holocaust you go to jail right in
the United States you have 100% liberty
to deny the Holocaust you don't go to
jail we believe in freedom of speech
more than they do in Europe we believe
in Liberty more now the amazing thing is
it hasn't gone anywhere that's that's
the irony it's been out and there and
everybody who says it looks looks like a
fool I mean I've had very rarely but
I've had people like that of coal - oh
I'll never forget the last I must have
been 15 years ago guy calls up said you
know we we're not really sure they were
gas chambers and and you know that six
million died and and you know hundred
thousand died and it seems they did if
typhus so I remember I said and you know
I think I remember you are you the guy
who called in wants to tell me that
there was there was no slavery that
blacks came over on cruise ships
and I realized that is the best way to
deal with people who deny history you
mock them and that you don't jail them
in Europe you get jail but you know what
that has led to in Europe it has led in
Europe to too much more than just
Holocaust denial if you say anything
that might offend a Muslim you go to
jail see that's that's the point it
doesn't end with Holocaust denial so we
prefer Liberty they prefer equality the
left prefers equality okay that's that's
the proof is why did so many people on
the Democratic Left forget I'm not
talking American Communist regular
leftist why are they were they so
enamored of Fidel Castro and still are
they have film festivals down there
Robert Redford goes down there all the
time has hours of meetings and dinner
and cigars with with Fidel Castro why
there's no liberty in Cuba but that
doesn't bother the left here that's the
point what they love is the fact that he
is aiming for equality the United
Nations ranked Cuba and the United
States is tied in health care just two
countries apart how could that be you
can't get an aspirin in Cuba so how
could that be because they don't care
the United Nations ranked equality not
quality what bothers the left is in
equality so what bothers the ripe is
lack of Liberty not inequality I don't
care if somebody is a thousand times
richer than me I don't care if I'm a
hundred times richer than someone else I
care if the person I'm a hundred times
richer does that person have access to a
home does that person have access to a
hospital does that person have access to
education and they do inequality doesn't
bother me in the least I always tell the
story of my next-door neighbor to this
day I don't know his first
cuz when I grew up you knew adults by
mr. right so I still know him is mr.
Klein mr. Klein had a Cadillac I
remember staring at that thing and I
remember which one the one with the
rocket taillights and I couldn't believe
it was so long you he would like take a
walk just to get across it mr. Klein had
a Cadillac and we had an Oldsmobile we
were two levels below mr. Klein because
in between was a Buick you were ranked
accordingly know me you know that I'm
not kidding it was Cadillac Buick
Oldsmobile Pontiac Chevrolet everybody
knew your income by what you which GM
car you drove that's how it worked oh
you're dating a girl what a father
drives a Chevy
Oh a Buick and that's true mr. climb had
a Cadillac mr. Lumpkin friend of my
parents had a Buick I thought he was
very wealthy I did I'm not kidding this
is but do you know that until I went to
college and learned about social
inequality it never occurred to me to
resent the fact that they were much
richer than us I never never occurred to
me if I would ever think about I thought
mr. Klein has a better paying job and
deserves it it's the end of the issue
when Americans see a Cadillac there the
American reaction is hey if I work hard
I'll have one too the European reaction
is he should be in a Chevy that's the
European reaction or better on a bicycle
it's a very very different worldview so
versus American American about the
American value of Liberty is the leftist
value of material equality that's why
they just constantly talk about
inequality inequality inequality and I
always say it doesn't bother me
inequality doesn't bother me and it's
shocking to be that direct to someone on
the Left it's like saying that you know
murder doesn't bother you what how is
that possible I want to know how the
least equal are living that's what
matters to me not whether there is a
giant gulf I don't care if there was a
giant gulf and by the way I just want to
tell you as one as a sort of happiness
guru because I really and I really do
think I have a handle on this subject
written the book the show every week for
12 years lectured on it all over and I
got to tell you after a certain material
need is met they are not happier in fact
every study done and I'm not saying look
but you know my view on money money
makes the happy happier and makes the
unhappy unhappy er that really I mean
give you a whole lecture on that it's a
it's something that I've worked through
when put in one sentence but it's it's
it's it makes the happy
because why not I'm happy already in
that way now I have more money great so
no big deal that's what's really nice
it's but if you're unhappy you don't
stop being unhappy because you got the
money
you're still unhappy but now that you
have the money you don't know what will
make you happy because you thought you
were unhappy cuz of the money that's the
reason so it was not a throwaway line
that the unhappier get unhappier with
money so money i mean obvi sobbed abject
poverty is a burden obviously but beyond
that i have been with such people I am
addicted my wife is my pusher in this
regard yeah I don't know how many of you
go to bed and there's murder and mayhem
on the television set when your spouse
has gone to bed earlier than you either
it's not see Channel what is the
official term the Military Channel yeah
it's it's either Nazi channel or
Investigation Discovery Channel and I am
now addicted I am I may fall asleep
during one of the shows and if that
happens you could blame it on ID on
because they they just got me started in
this way and just last night I was
watching a very wealthy family the
murder in this case they show you how
murderers have so real-life murders are
solved it's riveting and the they why
was the murder a very wealthy man
through his very much wealthier mother
down the steps and then beat her in the
head till she died and made it look like
an accident
here's a his a wealthy family for you
am i right
so so the inequality issue doesn't move
me next in god we trust'
the founders of this country were giants
they were they were giants the more I
read them the more I fell in love with
them during the research of this book
including the so called deists this is
another left-wing propaganda that dog
they weren't Christians they were deists
well wait they weren't Christians in
every case in terms of Christian
theology not all believed in the Trinity
that's true that's true but all believed
in God the Creator was described in the
Bible all Franklin Adams Jefferson all
and believed that society without God
and society without religion was doomed
all and I purposely quoted liberal
authors on the founders to prove the
point not to mention the founders
themselves Washington as well without
religion we are doomed Franklin Franklin
and I'll tell you why we are and I'll
tell you why we are Franklin the same
thing Adams here's one I wish I had I
wish I had it in front of me but I'm not
gonna ask if any of you have the book
because either I'll be hurt or there
will be a very long line of people
coming up with their book but I'll give
you one it's in the it's in the book
John Adams and I'm paraphrasing now John
Adams said sometimes I think that
religion is just ridiculous and nonsense
this is quoted all the time by the left
on their websites and so on but they
never quote the next line then I realize
however bad people would be with
religion they'd be a lot worse without
it then they never quote the rest of it
we all everybody who thinks at times
thinks oh Michael when we meet some
jerky religious person of course we
think that they never quoted the next
sentence they all realized that without
God and religion were doomed and this
was their genius Liberty is doomed
without God because if people do not
feel accountable to God for their
behavior then whom will they feel
accountable to the state so you either
have god-fearing people or state fearing
people the left wants state fearing
people I was just in Sydney Australia
lecturing last month they told me that
in parts of Sydney where the most
liberal parts of Sydney they measure how
much garbage you throw out and if you
throw out more garbage than allowed you
are fined a very very hefty fine that
great how much seekers because Australia
is is so filled with people that it
it's a real danger if they dumped all of
Sydney's garbage for the next century in
Australia no one would find where the
garbage is it's but but the desire to
control our lives and again fear of the
state there they're banning bake sales
in Massachusetts because kids are too
fat I mean the quality of life that that
is so attacked in something like that it
it's such a beautiful communal thing to
have a bake sale and to end that and of
course all the other things that have
been ended dodgeball because the kids
feelings could be hurt kids feelings
it's good to have kids should have their
feelings hurt I'm sorry I believe that
it's good because life isn't easy so if
you're feeling is hurt because you've
got knocked out of the dodgeball game
big deal I read I give you my word I
remember as a father I wanted my kids
baseball teams to win but as also as a
father I thought the truth is it's
better for them if they lose because
most of time in life you lose it's no
big deal winning the big deal is to
figure out how to live while losing
they're better prepared and I and yet
the left came up with this ridiculous
notion of the self-esteem movement I
feel like they're gonna take me away
I'll be done in a moment guys no it was
it was a very it was a terrible idea but
but I point out in the book and it's
really I think it's horrific analysis of
the left its feelings based so how you
feel how you feel about anything how you
feel about right and wrong how you feel
about a baby's worth right what
determines the worth on the Left what
determines the worth of a human fetus
the mother's feelings it's all feel
everything is feelings everything so of
course how you feel about yourself is
unbelievably important to the left but
it's all backwards I have a great simple
experiment for you I want you to think
of the two three people you most admire
and I want you to ask them if they had
high self esteem as a kid and I will bet
you that they didn't you know who has
high self esteem new study just came out
like I needed this study but alright I'm
glad it came out you know who do bullies
bullies have very high self esteem
violent criminals have the highest self
esteem of all very good people don't
have high self esteem they may have self
confidence but they don't have high self
esteem and finally e pluribus unum from
many one we are the least xenophobic
least racist Society in the world and
the left can't tolerate that first of
all they would like us to be race
conscious ethnicity conscious
nationality conscious we just say you're
an American hello I'm an American we
don't care if you have an accent we
don't care what your color is we don't
care what your former nationality is
you're an American great by the way a
Latin America didn't do that it's one of
the biggest single reasons that the
United States prospered and Latin
America didn't they only believe
what what one author who taught at
Harvard said familism they believed in
blood Americans didn't believe in blood
they only trusted in latinamerica
relatives Americans don't trust
relevance I mean let's be honest you
kidding I'll take a good stranger any
day
well really I mean that's the joke right
when you think about it we I'm kidding
about that well I'm semi kidding if I
were fully kidding you wouldn't have
laughed so hard so I obviously hit a
chord there but I mean let's be honest
we don't give a hoot right my you know
my wife is El Salvadoran Cambodian oh
very nice
who cares right right does anybody care
in Europe they care unbelievably
unbelievably third generation Turks in
Germany are still called Turks
first generation Turkish American is an
American just has a funny name but
everybody now has a funny name right
whose sous Denis is number 486 in most
popular names so no everybody has it
doesn't matter now people make up names
right doesn't matter can you do the job
who is this new lake or world peace
honey like that for remain world peace
yeah world peace has some great fowl
shop we left but nobody cares you want
to call yourself world peace you're
world peace is that right that's how we
we don't care the guy could call him
anything you want it's an amazing you
don't realize how amazing this country
is and it's because of yerba sonam from
anyone yes we believe in a melting pot
that's true Jesse Jackson not a quilt we
do believe in a melting pot
all right so that's my the argument in a
nutshell the book really spells it out
and look if I wanted to make a lot of
money what would I do now that I think I
don't know what I would do actually I
would have written I don't know another
book on happiness but I I've never and
everyone who knows me well knows I've
never been guided by money
I've been guided by can I do more good
and thank God I made a decent living I
wrote this book to do more good and I'll
end this way in my 20s I wrote my first
book it's called the nine questions
people asked about Judaism and it was an
amazing amount of hutzpah for a 25 year
old to think he can write a new
introduction to Judaism the oldest
religion in the world and people will
read it not much self-esteem but a lot
of foots book and so I remember I
approached my friend who became
ultimately a rabbi at the time I don't
remember yeah he may have just been
ordained my good friend from high school
Joseph delicious and I said Joseph we're
gonna write an introduction to Judaism
so he thought you gotta be kidding
I said Joseph believe me I'm telling you
we got better answers he told his mother
that were gonna write and his mother
looked at him and said Joseph but are
you kidding you guys are 25 years old
he'll write an introduction Judaism what
are you gonna say that hasn't been said
so Joseph had a lot of faith in me said
Dennis knows what he's doing so fine so
we decided to write it became the
best-selling introduction to Judaism in
the English language it is still in
print and I don't want to tell you how
long ago I was 25 but it's not yesterday
and so it was and what that was
relatively easy compared to this this is
the case that that was the case for
Judaism this is the case for America and
it needed to be done because we are
forgetting and it would be a sin because
it's it is the last great hope on earth
just as Lincoln said it and that's why I
call it to still the best hope thanks
very much
thank you again thank you
thank you Thank You Dennis
okay thanks a bit thanks again thank you
Thank You Dennis ladies and gentlemen we
have time for a few questions so if you
have a question please go ahead and
raise your hand and by the way where are
where are the books so people already
have them where am I gonna be signing
books I just want to know who's signing
books out loud out there okay fine yeah
okay okay if you have a question go
ahead and raise your hand and we will
come to you there's some in the back too
of cases another mic yes Dennis as of
today or or was yesterday when Obama
made the decision with respect to the
homosexual community what is your take
on that and is that not a further step
down this matter of devaluing American
society well it's not a matter of
devaluing American society but it is the
most radical redefinition of marriage
ever undertaken in any in any society in
history and all I ask is that those who
are for it acknowledge how radical it is
it is far more radical than the ban on
polygamy that was a change people say oh
it's Dennis you're wrong it's not the
first redefinition of marriage we
redefine it to monogamy from polygamy
said that's fine but there's no
comparison number doesn't have any
anything analogous in significance to
gender this is the it has never been
done and it has never been anticipated
there is no beautiful moral idea that
was not anticipated in great religions
prior to this right the idea that all
men are created equal and you can't be a
racist is totally adumbrated in the old
testament the new testament in
enlightenment thinking you named the
moral idea it was already stated if not
lived for the last thousands of years no
one no moral thinker no one ever came up
with the idea of marriage being between
two members of the same sex that is not
an argument in and of itself against it
it is just something to be aware of
there's a certain audacity in saying
that you're an extremist which is what I
said if you believe marriage should be
between a man and the
woman you're the extremist no you're the
extremist if you want to redefine it you
may be right I'll argue that separately
but that's the extreme position and by
the way if it is what Joe Biden said it
should be just well it's someone you
love then why shouldn't it be more than
one person what if I love two people who
is the state to tell me that that is not
that that should not be a marriage or if
I love my sibling what has happened here
is and I will be on just found out I'll
be on CBS News tomorrow morning to
discuss this and probably debated I'm
sure they may never put a conservative
on alone it's it's they're afraid he may
convince somebody look it's no no I'm
serious it's fascinating they'll have
liberals on alone all the time on the
mainstream media but never a
conservative alone but that's alright
I'm very happy to have I I debated this
on Larry King with with a gay a
gentleman and the current Attorney
General of California before while she
was running and I asked her one question
I just said if you think it doesn't
matter that's what you're saying
remember if you are for same-sex
marriage you we're saying sex doesn't
matter just love okay so in light of
that if you have a child for adoption a
newborn you have two couples both
wonderful people both four wonderful
people a married man and woman and two
committed gay men or two committed gay
women you have a child for adoption and
I asked I asked the the future Attorney
General who would you give the child to
and she hemmed and hawed and hemmed and
hawed and it was it was a clear moment I
mean give me a break everybody I know
including my gay friends would say give
it to the married man and woman first
you you don't have to be heterosexual to
believe that it's better for a child all
things being equal to have a mother and
father I mean any more than it would be
dishonest to say that every child raised
by two gays is going to going to be gay
or going to be bad I would never say
that but all things being equal it's
to have both sexes in the life of a
child but the moment you say that you
are acknowledging that's why they can't
admit it but that's why that's the
question I will pose to whomever I'm on
with if they allow me more than 12
seconds to speak and they don't always
they don't always it after all it's
television and so it but if they do I
will ask that question it's not the same
thing
love is love I fully I I never denigrate
the love of gay people for one another
that would be utterly wrong to do that
is true love and I believe that that but
I'm not measuring their love I'm
measuring the institution of marriage
not the love that people have for one
another it is it is going to be a
changed America if this becomes what
marriage is in the United States
children will be asked do you want to
marry a man or a woman when you get
older you will not be allowed to put a
child for adoption with with an opposite
sex couple you'll have to flip a coin as
it were that's why Catholic Charities is
out of the business of adoption in
Massachusetts and Illinois and probably
will be throughout the country it's a
very big deal yes recently I heard the
simplest way describe the difference
between Democrat and Republic this is
Democrat controlled from the top down
this is Republic from the grassroots
grassroots up I'm a Midwestern and I was
trying to convince someone recently here
in California how to get involved with
our government
you know I said do you want to be taxed
more and he said yeah I don't care I
want to surf until I died let them do
the work and tax me my question is what
is one poignant question that we can ask
leftist that is so powerful they're left
speechless and they start listening to
you
and what is the winning lottery number
I love the question there is no answer
no no if they were an answer no no look
I get letters literally every day you
changed me from left to right listening
to you it takes them but it doesn't
happen in one show however I will say I
do believe and that's why I think talk
radio is so powerful and I also started
this Prager University project of
five-minute courses that I do believe
change lives I'll tell you one thing
that I do with young people that will
will change them from the default
position of left to conservative it's a
great story I was invited to one of the
preeminent high schools in the Los
Angeles area hey one of the most
sophisticated high schools it sends its
students to the greatest colleges and
universities in the country
so the Republicans there believe it or
not they existed not much number but to
their great credit they got some funds
and they brought me and obviously I
didn't charge them a normal fee but but
I wouldn't go for free because I want
them to to you know work to get me I
work when I speak they should work to
get me anyway they got me so I went and
we had a meeting my wife was there she
couldn't she can tell you how true this
is and so the students I met with them
to thank them all the you know the 12
Republicans in the entire high school
and they said so Dennis so you're gonna
speak on conservative on conservatism I
said no and they're their faces work
restful and they worked so hard to bring
it conservative and I wasn't going to
speak on the case for conservatism so I
said what are you gonna speak on I said
I know this is gonna be a little but
unhappiness and they were they work
restful they were disappointed but I
said trust me this will turn them around
more than anything I could say about
politics and I'll tell you why I mean
I'll tell you why and I was right they
all agreed afterwards
it became the most controversial speech
ever given at the high school they all
acknowledged it was discussed for weeks
afterwards and the faculty hated it
which was a good sign
so here no nope here is so what what did
I say I spoke on the moral obligation to
act happy even if you don't feel it
this drove many of the students and
nearly all the faculty crazy because
what I said was how you behave is more
important than how you feel the moment
you believe that you have left the left
that is why it is such an effective idea
the moment I measure whether something
is good or bad right or wrong by it's
behavioral result and not by whether it
felt good the meaning there is a good
and a bad and a right and the wrong
external to my feelings you are no
longer on the left once feelings become
secondary to standards we won
unfortunately this has to be our last
question better be good
I just want to point out the hypocrisy
with a gay lobby
you know why are they championing a
bisexual marriage you know I've never
heard that but my real question is what
about the idea of us a few of us making
contact with Democratic Party and trying
to present our conservative principles
and ideas and goals wait you can contact
the Democratic Party I'm talking about
the local chapters in the local chapter
what does it mean contact them and
present them we could speak before that
a public forum I'm sure they don't why
don't you have I'll tell you what you
should have is you have a good spokesman
for the Republican or conservative
principles and they have a good
spokesman on their side and have a
debate I think that would be great I
wish they had these debates at colleges
for example they only hear one side I
spoke at Stanford about most
I guess nine years ago said about right
yeah about nine years ago and I spoke to
the open open session to the student
body and to the credit of the Stanford
daily they they put a picture of me
speaking and an article on my speech on
the front page of the Stanford daily I
Spy subject was anti anti Americanism
and anti-zionism explaining both of
these and to read the article was
eye-opening students after student after
student said to the reporter and I'll
never forget one I'm here for years at
Stanford I'm a political science major
how come I never heard a single one of
these ideas in four years that's why we
started Prager University by the way to
give them ideas that they would not have
heard at $50,000 a year Stanford in four
years and they didn't they never did you
think any of them I taught college kids
you think any of them ever heard for
example the argument that if God doesn't
says
is wrong maybe it isn't wrong never
never and by the way you asked them is
murder wrong they're they they have a
very hard time saying anything other
than I think so or I in my opinion it is
everything is reduced to opinion so this
is a real battle and this is this book
is my contribution thanks very much
you